Update the documentation for links. (#2220)
edgedb/edgedb: docs/datamodel/links.rst

relationship and it's expressed by the ``link owner``.

Selecting the shirts belonging to a specific owner can be done with
the following query:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    SELECT Shirt {
        description,
        owner: {
            name
        }
    }
    FILTER .owner.name = 'Billie';

It is possible to traverse any link backwards. When a *many-to-one*
link is traversed backwards, the result represents a *one-to-many*
relationship instead. For example, the previous query can be
re-written like this:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    SELECT Person {
        name,
        # let's use a computable here
        shirts := .<owner[IS Shirt] {
            description
        }
    }
    FILTER .name = 'Billie';

Alternatively, the above relationship can also be represented by the
following schema:

.. code-block:: sdl

    type Person {
        required property name -> str {
            constraint exclusive;
        }
        multi link shirts -> Shirt {
            constraint exclusive;
        }
    }
    type Shoes {
        required property description -> str {
            constraint exclusive;
        }
    }

It's possible to include both links ``owner`` and ``shirts`` to a

> schema, making one of them a computable expression in terms of the

Reviewer: Perhaps add a link to some section that discusses computables, or, better, add an example?  In fact, putting backward traversal into a computable link is a common pattern.

Author: Fair point. I might as well use this opportunity to show a version of the schema with the computable link. I think we also have a section where we talk about computables, so I can link to that as well.

            constraint exclusive;
        }
        link owner -> Person;
    }

A ``Shirt`` can have at most one ``owner``, while a ``Person`` can
have potentially have more than one ``Shirt``. This is a *many-to-one*
relationship and it's expressed by the ``link owner``.

Selecting the shirts belonging to a specific owner can be done with
the following query:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    SELECT Shirt {
        description,
        owner: {
            name
        }
    }
    FILTER .owner.name = 'Billie';

It is possible to traverse any link backwards. When a *many-to-one*
link is traversed backwards, the result represents a *one-to-many*
relationship instead. For example, the previous query can be
re-written like this:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    SELECT Person {
        name,
        # let's use a computable here
        shirts := .<owner[IS Shirt] {
            description
        }
    }
    FILTER .name = 'Billie';

Alternatively, the above relationship can also be represented by the
following schema:

.. code-block:: sdl

    type Person {
        required property name -> str {
            constraint exclusive;
        }
        multi link shirts -> Shirt {

>             constraint exclusive;

Reviewer 2: I would put some stress on `exclusive` here. This is what makes `many-to-one` instead of `many-to-many` in this case. Otherwise it's easy to miss when making your own schema.

Author: I've added a comment to the schema.

        }
    }

>     type Shoes {

Reviewer 2: s/Shoes/Shirt/

Author: Replaced

A *many-to-many* relationship represents the most generic kind of
relationship without any exclusivity. For example, ``Person`` and
``Movie`` in the following schema:

.. code-block:: sdl

    type Person {
        required property name -> str {
            constraint exclusive;
        }
        multi link likes -> Movie;
    }
    type Movie {
        required property title -> str {
            constraint exclusive;
        }
    }

A ``Person`` can like multiple movies and each ``Movie`` can be liked
by multiple people, thus making ``likes`` a *many-to-many*
relationship. This type of relationship has the same symmetry as a
*one-to-one* w.r.t. link traversal forward and backward, except that
potentially multiple objects can reached in either direction. Here's
the query for getting every ``Movie`` a given ``Person`` likes:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    WITH Cameron := (
        SELECT Person FILTER .name = 'Cameron'
    )
    SELECT Cameron.likes {
        title
    };

The reverse lookup of who likes a particular ``Movie``:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    WITH M := (
        SELECT Movie FILTER .title = "Matrix"
    )
    SELECT M.<likes[IS Person] {
        name
    };

> 

Reviewer 2: Somewhere here is a good place to introduce link properties?

Author: Link properties are a messy topic all of their own. We have a few places scattered across the docs touching on them, but perhaps they should be reorganized.

*concrete links*.  Abstract links are defined on the module level and are
not tied to any particular object type. Typically this is done to set
some :ref:`annotations <ref_datamodel_annotations>`, define
:ref:`link properties <ref_datamodel_props>`, or setup
:ref:`constraints <ref_datamodel_constraints>`.  Concrete links
are defined on specific object types.

> Links are directional and have a *source* and one or more *targets*.

Reviewer: Links don't have multiple targets.  Rather, a single *source* may have multiple *links* of a kind.  It is easy to see the difference when you take link properties into account.

Author: OK, I reworded it to talk about sources having links of certain kinds.

The number of targets is specified by the keywords :ref:`required
<ref_eql_ddl_links_syntax>`, :ref:`single <ref_eql_ddl_links_syntax>`,
and :ref:`multi <ref_eql_ddl_links_syntax>`.  It is also possible to
restrict how many source objects can link to the same target via the
:eql:constraint:`exclusive` constraint. Using these tools it's
possible to specify common relationships between things:
*one-to-one*, *one-to-many*, and *many-to-many*.

One-to-One
----------

> A *one-to-one* relationship represents a situation where everything
> is broken up into pairs and all the pairs are unique. For example,
> ``Employee`` and ``ReservedParking``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *one-to-one* relationship represents a situation where one object from 
a source set is linked to only one object in the target set, and vice versa.
For example, ``Employee`` and ``ReservedParking``:
```

Author: Updated

ensures that no more than *one* ``Employee`` can get the same
``ReservedParking``, while the ``single`` qualifier on the link (which
is the default, so it can be omitted) ensures that no ``Employee`` can
have more than *one* ``ReservedParking``. Together the constraint and
the qualifier specify a *one-to-one* relationship.

Although the link is specified only on one of the objects, the
relationship involves both of them and so it can be accessed from
either end. To get the assigned ``ReservedParking`` given an
``Employee`` the following query can be used:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    WITH Alice := (
        SELECT Employee FILTER .name = 'Alice'
    )
    SELECT Alice.parking {
        number
    };

The reverse lookup of who owns a particular ``ReservedParking`` spot
can be done by using a backward link traversal like so:

.. code-block:: edgeql

    WITH Spot := (
        SELECT ReservedParking FILTER .number = 42
    )
    SELECT Spot.<parking[IS Employee] {
        name
    };

Backward link traversal requires to specify the original link's source
type, but other than that it works the same way as forward traversal.

> 

Reviewer: What about `Many-to-One`?

Author: Many-to-one is mentioned in a backward link traversal description of one-to-many.

Reviewer: That isn't enough.  `Many-to-One` is actually the most used option, so it deserves a top level mention.  Perhaps even before `One-to-One`.

One-to-Many
-----------

A *one-to-many* relationship lacks the symmetry of a *one-to-one*,
instead represents situations like ownership or hierarchies. For
example, ``Person`` and ``Shoes``:

.. code-block:: sdl

    type Person {
        required property name -> str {
            constraint exclusive;
        }

>         multi link cars -> Shoes {

Reviewer: cars?

Author: An artifact from various iterations. Good catch :)

            constraint exclusive;
        }
    }
    type Shoes {
        required property description -> str {
            # Just making sure that each description
            # is unique like a name.
            constraint exclusive;
        }
    }

> A ``Person`` can have potentially have more than one pair of

Reviewer: I think `Shoes` is an inconvenient example in the context of the English language, because you use the term "pair of ``Shoes``" when talking about a single object, so this might be somewhat confusing to non-native speakers.

Author: Yeah. I'm looking for something that would be exclusively owned in a one-to-many way. So that's why I went for a personal item.

Maybe a ``Shirt`` or a ``Phone`` then? With ``Phone`` the example of getting multiple new ones may be a bit weird.
